Have you ever been in a situation where you felt especially anxious?
Vulnerable even fearful and you needed your closest friends to stand by you to strengthen you and encourage you
Very likely we have experienced that
Think of this situation. You're out in the field ministry with your friends working in a quiet neighborhood
You can see your friends up and down the street calling house to house as you are
All of a sudden the police arrive they single you out and tell you that you need to go to the police station with them
You look around for your friends and they've all disappeared
They've left you alone to deal with the situation. How would that make you feel?
Disappointed discouraged
Maybe even a bit angered
Well now we get the sense of how Jesus must have felt there in the Garden of Cassemony
When mob of his enemies came to arrest him and haul him away for trial and
Where were his eleven and closest friends?
Well as today's text says they all abandoned him and fled and
Yet just a few hours earlier those same men had vowed to him that they would rather die than
De-sert their lord
Well, Jesus was human and he has
Feelings just like us even though he could perfectly keep them in check
Of course, Jesus did have an advantage
He had known that it was prophesied over 500 years in advance that something like that was going to happen to him
Let's read the prophecy. It's in Zachariah chapter 13
Zachariah 13 and verse seven
Jehovah had this written oh soared awake against my shepherd
Against the man who is my companion
Declaraged Jehovah of armies strike the shepherd and let the flock be scattered
Well as a result look at what Jesus had told the eleven on their way from the upper room in Jerusalem to
Cassemony as he quoted that very prophecy to them. This is in Matthew chapter 26 and
verse 31
Matthew 26
Verse 31 it reports
Then Jesus said to them all of you will be stumbled in connection with me on this night
For it is written I will strike the shepherd and the sheep of the flock will be scattered about
Now we can speculate about what the apostles were thinking as they stepped into the shadows to flee
Are they thinking well the Lord said this was going to happen? So I guess we're just doing our duty
Probably not
More than likely it's logical to suppose that they were so terrified that the only thing they could think of was a
Quickest way to escape and to save themselves
Well, whatever they were thinking on that occasion the eleven did not live up to the proverb that says a true friend shows love at all
Times and as a brother who is born for times of distress
Proverbs 17 17
Now can you think of a Bible principle that would help each of us to be that brother or that sister who is born
For times of distress when one of our friends is especially anxious or vulnerable or fearful
Interestingly two years before that traumatic incidents in the Garden of Cassemony Jesus had taught a wonderful rule
That if always followed would prevent any of us from ever letting down a friend who is in need of our support
He taught this in the sermon on the Mount and it is quoted by both of the gospel writers
Who recorded his sermon? Let's take a look at Matthew's
Account of it in Matthew chapter 7
and verse 12
Matthew 712
He wrote
All things therefore that you want men to do to you you also must do to them
Here's how Luke worded it just as you want men to do to you do the same way to them and that really is a golden rule for every day life
Just as pure gold never tarnishes
The value of the golden rule has never diminished and likely it's the most famous rule ever stated, but also
It is one that's easily forgotten at times now. How can we apply it?
Basically by just taking two steps first of all think
If I were in the other person's situation
How would I feel?
What would I need? What would I want and then second takes some positive action to do something good and merciful for that other person
It just starts with sharpening our sensitivity to the feelings of others
Now in that Jesus is an excellent example to imitate because on many occasions and other many circumstances
Jesus shared in the feelings of those who were suffering in some way
First of all, he was sensitive to their needs. He felt their pain in his heart and
Second, he was moved to show compassion and he took the initiative to help people
He reached out to those who were in distress
Give you a couple of examples
For instance in Mark chapter one it shows us of how Jesus was moved to relieve people's suffering
Because it tells of a time when Jesus was approached by a man who was full of leprosy
Now Jesus knew it was unlawful for that man even to be there
But Jesus was so deeply moved that instead of turning the man away
Jesus did the
Unimaginable be touched him and after that one touch the disease that had made the man an hour
Cast was gone
You see Jesus knew of the heartless view that the rabbinic leaders had toward lepers
Jesus though had real compassion for people who were suffering
Another example in Luke chapter 7 tells us of how Jesus was moved to dispel people's grief
It tells of when Jesus saw a funeral procession
Now the circumstances were especially tragic because a widow's only son had just died her only means of support
And Jesus Gays was fixed on the grief stricken mother
And he told her to stop weeping weeping and then he spoke to the lifeless body and the young man came to life
None of the religious leaders had ever done that for the people
What have we learned from these accounts about the Christ
Well in each case did you notice the connection between Jesus compassion and his action
He could not see the plight of others without being moved with pity
And he could not feel such pity without acting on it
So when Jesus did those things that really helps us to appreciate
The attitude that we have to have toward those
That are close to us and who are going through difficult situations in life
If you turn to John chapter 15 now
We'll see the ultimate example of living by the golden rule
John 15
Verse 13 something Jesus said about himself
No one has loved greater than this that someone should surrender his life in behalf of his friends
Now thinking again of Jesus that night in gassemony
It is encouraging to read something that John included in his account just turn the page to John chapter 16
And look at verse 32
Look the hour is coming indeed it has come when each one of you will be scattered to his own house
And you will leave me alone. That's what Jesus told
The 11 faithful apostles
But then he said
But I am not alone because the father is with me
So Jesus sensed his father's keen interest in him that Jehovah was not remote or distant and had not forgotten
His beloved son
That feeling of closeness with God certainly strengthened Jesus during those moments when no human was around to help him
Well, we too can always be sure that our best friend Jehovah will stand by us support us
Encourage us and strengthen us
To face each day's cares and apprehensions
Whenever we find ourselves in an anxious
Vulnerable or fearful situation of life